SUBJECT: 210256- Data Structures and Algorithms Laboratory

Assignment No. - 1                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :                               
          Beginning with an empty binary tree, construct binary tree by inserting the values in 
          the order given. After constructing a binary tree perform following operations on it-
          • Perform inorder, preorder and post order traversal (Implement both recursive 
          and non-recursive methods)
          • Change a tree so that the roles of the left and right pointers are swapped at 
          every node 
          • Find the height of tree
          • Copy this tree to another [operator=] 
          • Count number of leaves, number of internal nodes. 
          • Erase all nodes in a binary tree. 
          
Assignment No. - 2                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :
          A Dictionary stores keywords and its meanings. Provide facility for adding new 
          keywords, deleting keywords, updating values of any entry. Provide facility to 
          display whole data sorted in ascending/ Descending order. Also find how many 
          maximum comparisons may require for finding any keyword. Use Binary Search 
          Tree for implementation.
          
Assignment No. - 3                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :   
          Create an inordered threaded binary tree and perform inorder and preorder traversals. 
          Analyze time and space complexity of the algorithm.

Assignment No. - 4                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :
          Consider telephone book database of N clients. Make use of a hash table 
          implementation to quickly look up client‘s telephone number. Make use of two 
          collision handling techniques and compare them using number of comparisons 
          required to find a set of telephone numbers (use linear probing with replacement and 
          without replacement)
          
Assignment No. - 5                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :
          Implement all the functions of a dictionary (ADT) using hashing and handle 
          collisions using separate chaining using linked list.
          Data: Set of (key, value) pairs, Keys are mapped to values, Keys must be 
          comparable, Keys must be unique. Standard Operations: Insert (key, value),Find(key), Delete(key)
          
Assignment No. - 6                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :          
          Represent a given graph using adjacency list to perform DFS and BFS. Use the map 
          of the area around the college as the graph. Identify the prominent landmarks as 
          nodes and perform DFS and BFS on that.
 
Assignment No. - 7                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT : 
          You have a business with several offices; you want to lease phone lines to connect 
          them up with each other; and the phone company charges different amounts of 
          money to connect different pairs of cities. You want a set of lines that connects all 
          your offices with a minimum total cost. Solve the problem by suggesting appropriate 
          data structures.


Assignment No. - 8                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :
          Given sequence k = k1 <k2 < … <kn of n sorted keys, with a search probability pi 
          for each key ki . Build the Binary search tree that has the least search cost given the 
          access probability for each key.

Assignment No. - 9                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT :
          A Dictionary stores keywords and its meanings. Provide facility for adding new 
          keywords, deleting keywords, updating values of any entry. Provide facility to 
          display whole data sorted in ascending/ Descending order. Also find how many 
          maximum comparisons may require for finding any keyword. Use Height balance 
          tree and find the complexity for finding a keyword

Assignment No. - 10                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT : 
          Implement the Heap sort algorithm implemented in Java demonstrating heap data 
          structure with modularity of programming language
          
Assignment No. - 11                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT : 
          Department maintains a student information. The file contains roll number, name, 
          division and address. Allow user to add, delete information of student. Display 
          information of particular employee. If record of student does not exist an appropriate 
          message is displayed. If it is, then the system displays the student details. Use 
          sequential file to main the data.

Assignment No. - 12                                       
PROBLEM STATEMENT : 
          Implementation of a direct access file -Insertion and deletion of a record from a 
          direct access file         
